>> Mike North: My name is Mike and
this is my 11th course with
Frontend Masters, which is pretty amazing.
And I'm super excited to share
Ember Octane with you today.
I work at LinkedIn as a staff engineer and
I worked very closely
with the Ember core team there where
we've been building all this stuff.
So I've been seeing it for the past year
and a half, or two years, slowly and
painstakingly coming together.
And it is so
cool to be able to not only unveil it, but
to be able to start building apps with
it and start reaping the benefits and
seeing that things are simpler and
easier and way more fun.
So, if you are new to Ember, it's an open
source framework for single page apps.
So it sort of is in the same space
as react or view or angular.
Ember puts a high level of importance
on developer productivity.
So we're interested in
empowering developers to
focus most of their energy
on building product.
Building features, fixing bugs,
solving interesting problems.
And not so
much in deciding between three or
four equivalent options, or almost
equivalent options to get something done.
That is a means to an end.
So Ember has ambitious apps in mind.
And this means apps that have
a lot of data going through them.
A lot of interactivity
that they have to handle.
And this is part of why
LinkedIn is invested
in the Ember community,
and the Ember framework.
LinkedIn.com is probably the biggest
single page app in the world.
It is an Ember app with many sub parts but
about 250 people working on
it committing code everyday.
So it is certainly an ambitious app and
we hope that the stuff that we do
in the open source community,
helps lift everyone else up as well.
Ember is opinionated,
which is a good thing.
That means that we can more effectively
than any ecosystem I've seen,
leverage common solutions,
to choose a common path and make it good.
And everyone walks down that path so
we don't have to worry about maintaining
three or four different things.
And we even know that in the future,
once there is a solution for
some problem, we're all gonna
be able to take advantage of it.
Ember puts a high amount of value
on stability without stagnation.
And that means that we
don't leave teams behind,
we try to make sure that the upgrade
path is as easy as possible.
And I am very proud of the fact that
we've managed to take our community and
bring them from the IE eight
ages up to the present
while having a reasonable migration path.
It's not perfect.
It never can be.
But there are no points in
time where we just said
it's time to rewrite from scratch.
So in this workshop, we're gonna talk
a lot about the important things
one needs to know in order
to build a modern ember app.
And we're going to do so by building
an app together so if you've taken classes
for me before sometimes I do a bunch of
like slides and we talk about things and
then we do some exercises,
we're gonna do it differently today and
we're just gonna collaboratively
build an app together.
I want this to be a miniaturized version
of a real world development experience.
So we're gonna make sure that
each step along the way,
we make sure our tests pass and we kind of
evolve this starting from regular HTML and
CSS all the way to a an interactive
full featured app.
But we wanna do so in a sustainable way.
Feel free to ask questions.
All of the stuff I'm showing
you here is very, very new so
almost nobody is an expert on all this.
I may not even be able to answer some of
your questions, but I will try my best.
And I think we're gonna have a lot of fun.
I really,
really enjoy working with Ember Octane.
So, here is the app that
we're going to build today.
You may recognise this as Slack,
the popular
team chat app, where we have on the left
side, you can select different teams.
Then for a team,
you have a list of channels and
each channel has some messages.
So we're gonna deal with all of
the problems around this like routing so
that your URL takes you to the right
place creating chat messages,
deleting them, etc.
And this app is going to be fast.
So simulating a mid-range
phone on a 3G network.
Our first meaningful paint is at 0.7
seconds, 2 seconds is a pretty reasonable
and respectable score for
a full fledged system so
you can imagine that we have over a second
of headroom for an API that might
be a little bit slow or do you have some
database queries that take a little while.
And this is on a mid-range phone.
If we look at desktop performance,
we're in the 0.1 and 0.2 second range.
And the only number
smaller than those is 0.
So this is blazing fast and
we're gonna use the combination of
some really fast client side code,
server rendering and some progressive
web technologies to get here, but
this is from a human perceived performance
standpoint, this feels instant.
This is approximately the amount of time
it takes to, when you flip a light switch,
the lights come on, we think that's
instant, that's the way our brains work.